Optimizing Engine X is an involved process.
Initially, we need to optimize the directives in the main events and HTP contexts, the next section
of the course deals with optimizing Engine X exclusively.
So in this section, we are only going to optimize Maria DB and HP.
The main performance bottleneck of a WordPress site are the database queries, the database uses valuable
server resources and will eventually crash your server if you don't have enough RAM.
What we do is to reduce the resource requirements of the database.
We need to cache duplicate database queries and tune the database on a monthly basis.
Initially, we are going to implement both a performance and an elsewise schema, which will aid the
recommendations made by an optimization script called My Iska Altuna.
I'll be discussing schemas shortly after we create and populate a WordPress database.
We are going to make use of my esca Altuna to give us some recommendations on how to improve the database
performance.
At this stage, do not attempt to run and tune Maria DB.
You need to populate the database with information before you can start tuning a database.
I must mention swap.
Firstly, I don't recommend creating a swap file on a solid state drive.
Rather, insure your server has enough physical memory.
If you have no option but to create a swap file, you need to look at reducing the sloppiness value.
What happens is my Esquibel does its own internal caching and for this reason, the internal buffer
pool must be fast if some of this buffer pool is mapped from ram to disk.
My school book Crash.
It's for this reason that it's important to ensure that your database has enough memory to work with.
The main Marea DB configuration file is a file called five zero hyphen server dot c in the schema is
a synonym for a database in Marea DB or MySQL.
The terms, database and schema can be used interchangeably.
When you create a database, you can change the command from create a database to create schema.
The first step we are going to take in optimizing Maria DB will be to install the performance and s
elsewise is schemas.
The performance schema monitors server events.
An event is anything the server does that takes time and has been instrumented so the timing information
can be collected.
The performance schema is a tool to help a database administrator do performance tuning by taking real
measurements instead of wild guesses.
Server monitoring occurs continuously and with very little overhead.
Activating the performance schema has minimal effect on the server resources.
The SLA is schema is a set of objects that help to interpret the data collected by the performance schema.
S What is schema objects can be used for tuning and diagnosis.
The S4 is schema provides an alternative way of accessing the performance schema.
The performance schema must be enabled for the ASWAY schema to work by implementing the performance
and Ezri schemas to allow for more accurate configuration recommendations made by my Eskdale Tuna.
My Iska Altuna is a Perl script that analyzes your MySQL performance and based on the statistics it
gathers, gives recommendations of which variables you should adjust in order to increase performance.
Using the recommendations, you can tune your database configuration to tweak out the last bit of performance
and make it work more efficiently.
Let's change to the Slash ETEK Directory CD Slash ETSI Enlisting will display a directory called My
Escape.
Oh, it's changed to the My Escarole directory Khedive Espace my Eskil a listing displays a directory
Amaria db dot com dot d.
You can change to the Maruja db seo nf Dotti directory listing displays the main configuration file
that we are going to be editing.
Five zero hyphen server dot CnF.
Make a backup copy of the file.
Sue C.p, the file name leave Espace the file name dot vacay a listing will display the original configuration
file as well as the backup copy.
We can now open the five zero hyphen server file using then a student and a five zero hyphen server,
Dot CnF.
We have a section marked My Isco D and we have basic settings.
You can scroll down until you find BINDE address and position your cursor underneath binde address.
In the PDF attached to this lecture you will find the directives to enable the performance schema.
We have a comment performance schema underneath.
You have the various directives to enable the performance schema.
Once you've added those directors to the five zero hyphen server dot CFR, you can close NENO saving
your changes to the five zero hyphen server dot c in file.
If you make a change to the configuration file, you need to restart that particular service to enable
the change in the configuration.
SUDA system, all we want to restart now, specify the name of the service that you want to restart,
and it is Maria Debe CD Change to your home directory.
Now we need to install the SBA schema.
To do that, we need to download a file from GitHub, the URL you will find in the PDF.
It allows you to retrieve content from other servers.
You get followed by the you are all.
The file we want to download is a file called Mosta.
That's a listing in my home directory.
The file that I downloaded.
Master Dotzler.
We need to unzip the file, unzip the space followed by the filename master.
That's a command unzip not found but it can be installed with ept install unzip sudo ept install.
We want to install the package called Anzu.
I'm going to talk play unzipped, followed by the filename.
A listing reveals the file we downloaded, as well as a directory called Maria DB s y es m. change to
the directory Maria DB s y es m..
A listing displays an e l file, a README file, as well as a directory called Views.
Now we need to install the Maria DB Espace installed at escarole file sudo my escudo hyphen you root
that commanders used to log in to Maria DB.
Now you type A this then period forward slash followed by the file name Maria db underscore s y es underscore
installed.
What is QoL.
You have just installed the ASWAY Schema CD, go back to your home directory, Aughrim is used to remove
or delete Halfon or if recursive and force.
We want to delete the Marea DB Suezmax, the directory, as well as the zip file Master Motsepe.
Now we need to download MySQL Tuner in my home directory.
I'm going to create a new directory mkdir for the directory I want to create.
I'm going to call my escarole chuda.
Please take note of the uppercase and lowercase characters that I'm using that's changed to the MySQL
Altuna directory MySQL.
Altuna is available in the official repositories, but I prefer to download the most up to date version
from the my escort, you know, website.
Again, we will use w get to download my Eskil tuner.
You will find the URL in the PDF attached to this lecture.
To run my escutcheon on our server, you have to give that particular Perl script executable permissions
C Mod plus six followed by the filename, look at the permissions, read, write, execute, read,
write, execute, read, execute.
That particular script can now be run on our server to run MySQL, Chuda.
You need to use sudo.
When we log into Marea DB we use Pseudo to run the MySQL Altuna script.
You need to use sudo suda leave space period forward.
Slash my esca altuna dot pl.
After running the script recommendations, we have general recommendations as well as variables to adjust.
I want you to scroll up until you find the section performance metrics to show you how important RAM
is on your server.
Maximum reached memory usage, 56 percent of installed RAM.
My server has one gig of RAM maximum possible memory usage, three point three gigabyte 345 per cent
of installed RAM.
Overall, possible memory usage with other process exceeded memory.
The amount of memory that Maria DB will use far exceeds the physical memory that the server has.
So what we need to do is reduce the number of connections currently set to one hundred and fifty one.
We need to restrict the database to a maximum of 75 to 80 percent of the installed RAM.
At the moment, the maximum possible memory usage is three hundred and forty five percent of installed
RAM.
We want to restrict it to 75 to 80 per cent of the available ram.
I'm going to open a calculator.
My server has a gig of RAM.
Take it at a thousand.
We want to restrict Maria DB to around 75 per cent of the available room times point seventy five.
That leaves us with 750 total buffer's 432 megabytes.
That needs to be subtracted from the 750.
That leaves us with three hundred and eighteen.
The total buffers are four hundred and thirty two megabytes global plus eighteen point nine megabytes
per thrid.
So we need to divide the three one eight by eighteen point nine.
That gives us sixteen point eight to I don't like to round up with Maria DB rather round down sixteen.
I'm going to make it fifty some my maximum connections on the server.
I'm going to change to fifteen.
I'm currently in my home directory in a directory called my Iska Altuna.
I need to open the main Marea DB configuration file five zero hyphen server sudo neno lever space.
I'm now going to use the absolute path to that file.
Slash etsi slash my Eskil.
Inside the MySQL directory we had another directory called Maruja DB Dot Seo in the D inside the Maruja
DBC directory we have five zero hyphen server dot cnf in the section my escrowed.
We have basic settings underneath skip external locking max underscore connections equals fifteen.
You can close five zero hyphen server saving your changes.
Now we need to restart the Marea DB service to enable the change we've made to the five zero hyphen
server file suit system.
Ctrl restart Marea db sudo period forward slash mysql tuner dot pl.
This scroll back to performance metrics, overall, possible memory usage with other process is compatible
with memory available total buffer's 432 global plus eighteen point nine per thread, 15 maximum threats
in the same manner that I calculated the maximum connections to 15.
You can calculate for your server, say your server has two gigs of RAM 75 per cent of two gigs, minus
four hundred and thirty two.
The balance divide by eighteen point nine and rounded off but round it down then run MySQL tuner and
ensure overall possible memory usage is compatible with the memory available.
That is the only city that we are going to look at with my ISKA or tuna at this stage of the course,
you need to create a WordPress site.
You need to create the database for that site.
That database needs to be populated by WordPress.
Only then can you start looking at the general recommendations as well as the variables to adjust.
Do not attempt to change them now.